Update documentation with support for tensor-input types (#4068)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/models.rst

Model Signature
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The Model signature defines the schema of a model's inputs and outputs. Model inputs and outputs can
be either column-based or tensor-based. There are two different signature types: column-based and
tensor-based. Column-based inputs and outputs can be described as a sequence of (optionally) named
columns with type specified as one of the :py:class:`MLflow data types <mlflow.types.DataType>`.
Tensor-based inputs and outputs can be described as a sequence of (optionally) named tensors with
type specified as one of the `numpy data types <https://numpy.org/devdocs/user/basics.types.html>`_.
The signature is stored in JSON format in the :ref:`MLmodel file <pyfunc-model-config>`, together with
other model metadata.

Model signatures are recognized and enforced by standard :ref:`MLflow model deployment tools
<built-in-deployment>`. For example, the :ref:`mlflow models serve <local_model_deployment>` tool,
which deploys a model as a REST API, validates inputs based on the model's signature.

Column-based Signature Example

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Author: add in "All flavors support column-based signatures."

Model Signature
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The Model signature defines the schema of a model's inputs and outputs. Model inputs and outputs can
be either column-based or tensor-based. There are two different signature types: column-based and

> tensor-based. Column-based inputs and outputs can be described as a sequence of (optionally) named

Reviewer: No need to the repeat  column-based and tensor-based

        (cm)", "type": "double"}, {"name": "petal length (cm)", "type": "double"}, {"name":
        "petal width (cm)", "type": "double"}]'
      outputs: '[{"type": "integer"}]'
      
Tensor-based Signature Example

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Author: add in "Only DL flavors support tensor-based signatures (i.e TensorFlow, Keras, PyTorch, Onnx, and Gluon)."

Signature Enforcement
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Schema enforcement checks the provided input against the model's signature
and raises an exception if the input is not compatible. This enforcement is applied in MLflow before
calling the underlying model implementation. Note that this enforcement only applies when using :ref:`MLflow
model deployment tools <built-in-deployment>` or when loading models as ``python_function``. In
particular, it is not applied to models that are loaded in their native format (e.g. by calling
:py:func:`mlflow.sklearn.load_model() <mlflow.sklearn.load_model>`).

Name Ordering Enforcement
"""""""""""""""""""""""""
The input names are checked against the model signature. If there are any missing inputs,
MLflow will raise an exception. Extra inputs that were not declared in the signature will be
ignored. If the input schema in the signature defines input names, input matching is done by name
and the inputs are reordered to match the signature. If the input schema does not have input
names, matching is done by position (i.e. MLflow will only check the number of inputs).

Input Type Enforcement
"""""""""""""""""""""""

> The input types are checked against the signature. MLflow will perform safe type conversions

Reviewer 2: We should clarify that we only do type conversions for dataframe-like schema. tensor type checking is strict.

        (cm)", "type": "double"}, {"name": "petal length (cm)", "type": "double"}, {"name":
        "petal width (cm)", "type": "double"}]'
      outputs: '[{"type": "integer"}]'
      
Tensor-based Signature Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Only DL flavors support tensor-based signatures (i.e TensorFlow, Keras, PyTorch, Onnx, and Gluon).

Reviewer: Isn't fastai a DL flavor?

Author: hm.. do we plan on supporting tensor input for fastai? @tomasatdatabricks

    output_schema = Schema([ColSpec("long")])
    signature = ModelSignature(inputs=input_schema, outputs=output_schema)

Tensor-based Signature Example
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
The following example demonstrates how to store a model signature for a simple classifier trained
on the ``MNIST dataset``:

> .. code-block:: python

Author: need to confirm this code block works

    from mlflow.models.signature import infer_signature

    (train_X, train_y), (test_X, test_y) = mnist.load_data()
    trainX.reshape((trainX.shape[0], 28, 28, 1))
    testX.reshape((trainX.shape[0], 28, 28, 1))
    trainY = to_categorical(trainY)
	  testY = to_categorical(testY)
    
    model = Sequential()
    model.add(Conv2D(32, (3, 3), activation='relu', kernel_initializer='he_uniform', input_shape=(28, 28, 1)))
    model.add(MaxPooling2D((2, 2)))
    model.add(Flatten())
    model.add(Dense(100, activation='relu', kernel_initializer='he_uniform'))
    model.add(Dense(10, activation='softmax'))
    opt = SGD(lr=0.01, momentum=0.9)
    model.compile(optimizer=opt, loss='categorical_crossentropy', metrics=['accuracy'])
    model.fit(trainX, trainY, epochs=10, batch_size=32, validation_data=(testX, testY))

    signature = infer_signature(train_X, model.predict(train_X))
    mlflow.keras.log_model(model, "mnist_cnn", signature=signature)

The same signature can be created explicitly as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.models.signature import ModelSignature
    from mlflow.types.schema import Schema, TensorSpec

    input_schema = Schema([

>       TensorSpec("float32", (-1, 28, 28, 1)),

Author: need to confirm input type here

How To Log Model With Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To include an input example with your model, add it to the appropriate log_model call, e.g.
:py:func:`sklearn.log_model() <mlflow.sklearn.log_model>`.

For models with column-based schemas, an example can be passed in as a Pandas DataFrame, Numpy array,
list or dictionary. The given example will be converted to a Pandas DataFrame and then serialized to
json using the Pandas split-oriented format. Bytes are base64-encoded. The following example demonstrates

> how you can log an input example with your model:

Author: need to finalize how tensor-based models will be logged (with or without a schema)

Once loaded, you can score the model by calling the :py:func:`predict <mlflow.pyfunc.PyFuncModel.predict>`
method, which has the following signature::

  predict(model_input: [pandas.DataFrame, numpy.ndarray, Dict[str, np.ndarray]]) -> [numpy.ndarray | pandas.(Series | DataFrame)]
  
All model flavors will support pandas.DataFrame as input and some will also support tensor inputs in the form

> of numpy.ndarrays.

Reviewer 2: I think we should mention that generally DL flavors are expected to support tensors? We should also tell users to check documentation for the particular flavor to verify whether it supports tensor input.

Once loaded, you can score the model by calling the :py:func:`predict <mlflow.pyfunc.PyFuncModel.predict>`
method, which has the following signature::

  predict(model_input: [pandas.DataFrame, numpy.ndarray, Dict[str, np.ndarray]]) -> [numpy.ndarray | pandas.(Series | DataFrame)]
  

> All PyFunc models will support `pandas.DataFrame` as input and DL PyFunc models will also support tensor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All PyFunc models will support `pandas.DataFrame` as an input. In addition to  `pandas.DataFrame`, DL PyFunc models will also support tensor
```

    curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/invocations -H 'Content-Type: application/json; format=pandas-records' -d '[
        {"a": 1,"b": 2,"c": 3},
        {"a": 4,"b": 5,"c": 6}
    ]'

    # numpy/tensor input using TF serving's "instances" format
    curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/invocations -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{
        "instances": [
            {"a": "s1", "b": 1, "c": [1, 2, 3]},
            {"a": "s2", "b": 2, "c": [4, 5, 6]},
            {"a": "s3", "b": 3, "c": [7, 8, 9]}
        ]
    }'

    # numpy/tensor input using TF serving's "inputs" format
    curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/invocations -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{
        "inputs": {"a": ["s1", "s2", "s3"], "b": [1, 2, 3], "c": [[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6], [7, 8, 9]]}
    }'

For more information about serializing pandas DataFrames, see
`pandas.DataFrame.to_json <https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/generated/pandas.DataFrame.to_json.html>`_.

For more information about serializing tensor inputs using the TF serving format, see
`TF serving's request format docs <https://www.tensorflow.org/tfx/serving/api_rest#request_format_2>`_.

> The predict command only accepts DataFrame inputs. The format is specified as command line arguments.

Reviewer: I dont follow this?

Author: This is referring to the CLI - we never added tensor input support to that, only the REST API

it seemed a little unclear to me too, perhaps the header below this can be renamed to CLI and we can put this line under there

* CSV-serialized pandas DataFrames. For example, ``data = pandas_df.to_csv()``. This format is
  specified using a ``Content-Type`` request header value of ``text/csv``.

> * Numpy arrays formatted as described in `TF Serving's API docs

Reviewer 2: Hmm, should we call this Tensor input instead of numpy arrays since it can be a dict of numpy arrays? Not sure, which one is more clear.

Author: ooh yeah makes sense
